# Chess project Sommers

A fun summer project I have been working on in my spare time.  Every piece currently moves as intended in a real game of Chess with the exception of checking whether or not moving the piece towards a given position will result in their King being placed in check. Running it is only a matter of compiling the Game.java file. The interface will subsequently appear with each of the 32 black and white chess pieces appearing on it.  </br>
</br>
If you are compiling this with eclipse, move the sprites folder from Chess/src to Chess.  Placing the sprites folder in the wrong place will result in the pieces being invisible with the rest of the interface features being fully operational.</br>
As of the December 2018 update to this game, most of the menu features are fully functional.  Saving a game from the menu bar is not available yet.  This will be fixed in a later update.</br>
Core gameplay with regular and take-me chess work properly.  The settings let you choose which mode of chess you wish to play.  </br>
This app won't allow you to make any illegal moves.  Pieces won't be allowed to move where they cannot move.  For instance, assuming you are playing regular chess, you won't be allowed to make a move that will put or keep your King in check.</br>  In take-me chess, capturing an opponent's piece, when possible, is required.  Like all other pieces, the King can be captured in take-me chess.

# Update as of April 2020

After a long time away from this project, I thought I'd update it with extra features.  </br> The game now reliably keeps track of the movements made by both players, contains a graveyard so you can view captured pieces, the ability to save a game so you can continue from where you left off.  I also implemented a dumb AI that you can activate from the settings.  Currently this AI can only make totally random moves.  When it's the AI's turn, they won't move until you click on any tile on the board after your move.  Of course if you set the AI to play itself, you'll need to click on any tile on the board to get them to make their move.  There is a setting to make the AI harder but it does not work yet.  I plan on updating this app further to make the AI more difficult to beat.  Another goal of mine is to see if I can trim the code so it has fewer lists or data structures to reduce memory usage as I may see about increasing the size of the board for the player's choosing.  There are many different types of chess out there and I may explore impementing more styles of chess besides suicide chess and regular chess.</br>

After weeks of head smashing, thousands of lines of code, and accounting for as many senarios as possible to prevent illegal moves from being made, I am proud of the progress I have made on this app.  I have dreamed of writing a Chess app ever since I started programming during my undergrad years and I'm ecstatic to live that dream everyday that I work on this.  The development process has taught me that if you keep going until it's done right, the results will be to your great satisfaction.  I challenged myself to implement every aspect of the project EXACTLY the way I desired no matter how many steps it took.  The exact same situation applies to the difficult times we are going through right now.  They will last a while but if we put our minds to getting through this, a brighter future will happen before we know it.  </br>

As of this update the project (.java) files contain a cumulative 5,969 lines, 21 classes (counting inner & private classes) in 19 files, 3 piece styles(regular, classic, mario)
